---
title: A1
layout: doc
---

# Assignment 1

## Hunch
A term, “Net-Living,” has becoming popular in Taiwan, which indicates people who live on the Internet and know all the popular meme and trends. However, the off side is that “living on the net” might make you unproductive. 

I would like to analysis Taiwanese’s habit of using social media and create a social media that strike a balance between learning the trends but not distracting; in other words, to be useful but not draining people's time unexpectedly (though might not be profitable...:joy:).

## Interviewee

Though both of the interviewee are my family, I think they are good representatives of Taiwanese. They first represents different ages. Their experience on times when they "have to" stay focus is different. Also, my brother is more outgoing and shares his life on the social media apps. My mother is more of an introvert, rarely posts, and stays at home most of the time. They differs to me in a sense that they have never been abroad and will probably stay in Taiwan for the rest of their life, similar to most of the Taiwanese. 

- My younger brother. *Shih-Wei Huang* 

> A 2nd year college student, major in Laboratory Medicine, who has identified himself as active "net-liver." Formed a group to share class notes and summarys on social media apps in his department. He also had experience that needs to focus to prepare for college entrance exam intensively and quit using certain social media. Uses social media such as LINE, Facebook, Instagram.

- My mother. *Wan-Ching Chang*

> A full-time housewife who spend most of the time in house or by the neighborhood. More of an introvert, so connects the world mainly through phone. She barely keeps in touch with friends from youth in person. Barely has experience that being "productive" is required. Uses LINE and Facebook.

## Strategy

Instead of explicitly asking whether they thought about "whether using social media makes you unproductive," I asked about what they do on these social media and when do they <ins>**open**</ins> or <ins>**close**</ins> the applications.

With those answers, I will go deeper into specific functionality of that social media and find some hints related to my hunch. Specifically, I am looking into their opinion on cases where some features are removed or added, which helps me identify their real need.

## Questions 
**(Note: all content are translated from Mandarin)**

**General Questions**
1. What social media do you usually use?
2. What functionalities do you use in xxx? Under what circumstance will you use this function? 
3. How do you think this social media app is to you? (For example, daily necessities, just for killing time...)
4. When do you "open" the app and start to use this functionality?
5. When do you "close" the app when using this functionality?
6. Can you explain a little bit more about the difference between the timing of you open and close the app?
7. You have mentioned using this specific functionality takes longer than you expected, if there is an opportunity to decide to include this functionality or not when installing this app, will you include this functionality? Why or why not?
8. If this time-consuming functionality is removed, what is the real-life effect to you?


**More Personal-Specific/ Follow-up Questions**


1. (For Shih-Wei) When you mentioned LINE is daily necessity but does not have all functions that Instagram have, how do you think about LINE if it adds those Instagram functionality to their system? Will you enjoy it or stick to the original platform?
2. (For Shih-Wei) You mentioned you use LINE sometimes for life-recording purpose, but also uses Instagram story for similar purpose, can you elaborate more on the difference?
3. (For Wan-Ching) You mentioned browsing LINE news takes you plenty of time. How do you think about some sort of notification to keep track of the time?

## Interview Reports

**Shih-Wei**

Shih-Wei uses LINE and Instagram the most and defined them differently. He thinks LINE is a daily necessity and Instagram is more like a leisure app that he catches up the trends and kill times. Some functionalities that he uses in LINE includes work communication, recording his life by uploading photos, and obtaining coupons or making reservation with the store's official LINE account. As for Instagram, he uses it to post story, watch reels, find famous/nice restaurant and tourist spots, and add filter to his photos.

He opens LINE when he receives notification or when he needs to. He closes the app right after he finishes the specific operation, such as after replying, upload the photo, and make a reservation. His habits in Instagram usage is different from LINE. For scrolling reels, he does it when he wants to, without a specific reason. But even when he finished posting stories, applying filter to photos, he will browse the reels after that without acknowledging. He closes Instagram when he suddenly becomes conscious about what he should do next. Because of this reason, he removed the Instagram application during the college entrance exam period.

Moving back to my topic, he admitted that Instagram Reels took away time unconsciously and even described it as a "poison cave". He thinks removing Reels only effects moments when everyone knows the meme but he doesn't and cannot laugh out loud with others. It only matters on that specific moment in real life. On the other hand, he thinks real friendship or the friendship that he needs does not need those Instagram Reels and meme to sustain, so he would like to download a version of Instagram without the Reels functionality to avoid time being wasted. He also mentioned that it is hard to imagine a successful person to scroll Reels because it just wastes so much time and make you lose oppotunities you might have that leads to success.

**Wan-Ching**

Wan-Ching uses LINE and FaceBook the most. She uses LINE not only to send messages and videos, but also watches news, LINE Pay (like ApplePay), chooses gifts, watches TV series, and is trying to use the new features such as calling Taxi and open a bank account (LINE Bank). Line has become a daily necessity with multiple functionalities that U.S. social media do not have. She uses FaceBook to see what her friends are doing, watching shorts, and also check local Facebook groups to see what is happening in the neighborhood.

It has become a habit that she hits the LINE icon when she turns on her phone. She does not turn on notification because group chats can be annoying, so she just check irregularly to see if there is new message. She will not turn off immediately. She will get distracted to the news section and click on another one after reading one. Typically, she turns it off a when an operation is done (for example, replying a message), but clicking the news section just becomes unavoidable. As for Facebook, she opens whenever she wants. As the way how Facebook arranges the post requires you to scroll down, it becomes as addicting as Facebook Shorts. "It was easy to lose track of time," she says. She turns off Facebook when she feels exhausted.

"Watching LINE News effects my daily life," she says, "unlike movies or TV series that you can do something else while listening, you have to look at every single words when reading the news and time flies unconsciously." But she would like to keep this feature as this might be the only way for her to know what's happening in the world. She thinks that it is of course better if the total time of usage can decrease, but she refuses to have a reminder on the total usage time when using the social media.

## Something Surprising/ Interesting to Me

- I was surprised that they are as addicted to those apps as me. I should check on my family more...

- Even two social media has some functionality in common, both of them still differ two applications clearly. LINE is for daily necessities, and Facebook/ Instagram is mainly for relaxing and not necessary.

- Shih-Wei contrasts usage of LINE and Instagram in so many ways. LINE as "necessity" and Instagram as "leisure", "use for work" and "poison cave", "stop whenever I finished the action" and "hard to be conscious of the time." 

- What Wan-Ching says that she doesn't want a reminder when you uses this application for too long surprised me. I forgot people can use social media in different mindset, and sometimes people simply want to kill as much time as possible and relax.

## Possible Design Idea

- Leisure Mode/ Task Mode
> Users can set "how addicting" this media can be. Instead of simply locking certain functionality, what I am looking for is a layout change. Wan-Ching mentioned that even if there is a time warning, she will not care at all and keep scrolling content she wanted, which makes "locking certain functionality" useless, since user will probably unlock themselves (That is what we called addition!).

> We still display similar content in "Task Mode", but it won't be a infinite list that you will never finish scrolling. The layout will be designed that user can get all revelent information in one page. It should fulfill the demand of what the user wants to know and implicit reminding the time. "Leisure Mode" will be as addictive as possible.

- Multi-functional Social Media App
> I am not sure about the situation in the States, but Taiwanese usually have more than 2 social media in their phone. Both of my interviewee gave clear distinction between the social media they have used (necessary/ for relaxing). I would like to blur this boundary across apps and combine them. These function can be explicitly seperated or can be ingrained into another. I don't want people to define "for something serious" or "for fun" easily for my new application. For example, enable story (like Instagram) to LINE might be a possible first step.

- Photo Searching System
> Both of the interviewee use LINE to send or store photos. As Shih-Wei praised the new functionality that LINE and Instagram can both search the chat history to find a specific word, I think the similar sitation can also apply to photos. When a photo is taken, it generates description of the five most significant elements in the photo. Time and location are also labelled. When we want to rewind a specific photo but forgot the specific date and location, this system can narrow down many options.

- Local News Report/ News Reader
> Wan-Ching mentioned one of her main use of Facebook is to see new posts from local Facebook groups. If the photos are well-labelled, a map labelled by photos of the neighborhood can be constrcted. It should be clear, precise, and efficient. Of course she will click in every event on the map, but at least not starting to accidentally scroll to a post that is not revelent to present. Since she also complained that reading news limits her action, even though she wants to know the news, I think a reader to help convert information from the text to voice will be interesting.

- Pre-use Expectaction Check
> Similar idea as "Leisure Mode/ Task Mode." The idea is that people should think the same when they open the app and close the app. In other words, using the application should match the expectation that you made before opening it. Opening LINE to reply message but get drowned in the LINE News will be not ideal at all. I would like to implement some type of way that it does not bother relaxing people scrolling their phone, but stop the user doing other things if the user has the expectation of only replying message before opening this app.

