---
title: A6 - User Testing
layout: doc
---

# Assignment 6: User Testing

## Task List

### **Task 1**: Register/ Login/ Logout 

**Instructions**
1.	At the Login tab, register by typing in the username and password.
2.	Login to the system using the username and password registered. 
3.	At the setting tab, change the password. 
4.	Logout the account. Login again with the new password.

**Rationale**
> Test basic functions for authenticating. Let author be familiar with switching across tabs and logging in to the application. This is necessary for the following tasks.

---

### **Task 2**: Add friend

**Instructions**

1.	Go to Friends Tab and type in the username "apple", whcih is the friend you want to add.
2.	Send a friend request to apple.
3.  Wait until the request is approved.
4.	Check if the user "apple" becomes your friend.

**Rationale**
> Friend concept is necessary for posting and messaging. Since you can only see your friends' posts (not properly implemented yet) and only message your friend, adding a friend served as a set-up step for the following tasks.

---

### **Task 3**: Message friend to make a post

**Instructions**

1.	Go to the message tab. Find the chat with your friend.
2.	Send a message to "apple" and ask "apple" to post anything.
3.	"apple" will let you know when it is posted.
4.  Go to the home page. You should see "apple"'s post.

**Rationale**
> Testing messaging concept. Make sure the user can communicate directly through message tab.
> Also, I would like to see how promptly one will receive message after the other person hit the "Send Message" button.

### **Task 4**: Add a post, edit, and delete it

**Instructions**

1.	After logging in, go to the home page and type something in the text box. 
2.	Send the post. You should be able to see your post.
3.	After the post is posted, edit the content.
4.	Save the edited post. The post should now be modified.
5.	Delete the post. The post is no longer to be seen.

**Rationale**
> Testing the basic operations of posting concept. This logic is similar to the any application that has posting function and also straightforward.

### **Task 5**: Add Label to The Post

**Instructions**

1. Create a post and press the "edit label" button in the post.
2. Add three labels under this post.
3. Delete two of them by pressing the delete button.
4. Exit the label editting mode.

**Rationale**
> Be able to add label to the posts. Test if the append and remove labels UI/UX is clear.

### **Task 6**: Operations in Focus Mode

**Instructions**

1.	Set to Focus mode, choose "message", select the friend you want to send the “break-up” message
2.	Type in some last words you would like to say to your friend.
3.	Send the message.
4.	(Optional) Go back to the Leisure mode and check if the message is successfully sent.
5.	Now select "remove friend", and select that friend from the selection list. Remove the friend.
6.	Try to message again, the friend should no longer be in the selection list.

**Rationale**
> Check if the focus Mode interface works same as in Leisure mode. Confirm the operation flow in Focus mode is clear for the user, also check whether Focus mode updates the UI according to the user's operation.
> For example, when select "remove friend", will the list of friends that you can remove show up correctly?

## Original Response (Can be skipped, for my record)

I actually asked my parents as the participants. I think it is interesting because they don't use English much in their daily life; hence, the graphic component is relatively crucial to their understanding.<br />
They also used different devices (cellphone and computer) to conduct this test. My father is a police, who uses computer sometime to enter in work-related data; where my mother rarely uses computer.

<center>

| Participant A| Participant B|
| --- | --- |
| My mother | My father |
| Housewife | Police |
| Cellphone | Computer |
| Uses cellphone more in daily life for different social media applications. | Uses computer at work. Does not use much social media. |

</center>

### Task 1 : Register/ Login/ Logout

**Participant A**
- do we need email? Do we need password
- sent, see post
- refreshed, go back to same original, 
- Set the same password, but did not show password is same
- Go back to original : Search by author
- Successfully get in the system
- Where to change password? “Setting tab”
- See home page and say en6568

**Participant B**
- See home page, pressed login on the right top corner
- “Please login” is confusing
- “pressed” submit, why nothing? See welcome, create post, might
- Don't know where to change the password
- Don't know where the setting is, expected “personal information” 
- Logout button is in the same page, login

### Task 2 : Add friend

**Participant A**
-	Default is focus mode, cannot see the friend
-	After I accepted, did not see anything different
-	Refresh the page, see the home page, friend tab 
-	Will not update simutanelously

**Participant B**
-	Search post, see the post of apple
-	Pressed the “apple” of the post, don’t see anything, 
-	Same interface
-	Pressed friend, type in apple, send friend
-	Message > chat with apple
-	Confused with the sent/received friend request

### Task 3 : Message friend to make a post

**Participant A**

-	Did not see the message updated simultaneously
-	Only see the first part of the message
-	Tried mandarin, worked
-	Does not show the second message.
-	After 
-	Pressed, See a post
-	Banana also says hello! (Did not know the difference between post and message)
-	Not sure if it is her message, because the message got cut off
-	Though there are 6 messages, only saw three messages
-	Only see one column on the surface, left and right is too far apart


**Participant B**

-	Typed aaa in the textbox, cannot see it from the message
-	Try to go to setting, home
-	Go back to home and see the post

### Task 4 : Add a post, edit, and delete it

**Participant A**

-	Pressed Grasp, create a post, can type in the post you want
-	Type in “ABCDEFG”, press “create a post”
-	Pressed, scroll down, can see a post 
-	“Edit post” add “ddd”, press save, automatically post
-	“Delete post” the post is no longer visible

**Participant B**

-	In the home page, see the “create the post”
-	Type in, and pressed the button 
-	See the post that just posted
-	See three button, pressed the middle one to edit the post
-	Pressed the button on the left, because it is blue
-	Successfully see the modified post,
-	Pressed “delete” and the post is gone

### Task 5 : Add Label to The Post

**Participant A**
-	I forgot I asked to delete the post, create a new one
-	“saw a bunch of letters” did not know what does it mean
-	As long as I type in and press “add label”
-	Press “Delete” and the label is gone.
-	Without typing anything, will also show an empty new label, why does it say there is a new label even if nothing is typed in
-	“Press finish label” than it is existed, but the main page cannot see what the labels are. Only can see the post content” need to press edit label to be able to see

**Participant B**
-	Create a post, same workflow
-	Pressed “edit label”, don’t  know what the label means
-	Thought it means to tag someone
-	Edit label, see the post id… “label here” 
-	Type “apple” and add label, Type “banana” and add label, Type “en6568” and add label. See the words on the and see a red button.
-	Remove “apple” and “banana”, pressed the button beside “apple” but other label is removed
-	Pressed “edit label”, still there, press “finish label” 

### Task 6 : Operations in Focus Mode
**Participant A**

-	Interface, press the button, Leisure mode (not opened), tab three rows, after go to Focus mode, Friend and Message is gone, only see Focus Setting hello, en6568
-	Pressed focus, appears “select your option” arrow, pressed the arrow, add Friend/ remove friend/ post/ message, it seems like I can decide what mode I can send to friend
-	Choose friend, only banana show up, after sent, go back to the original 
-	Not sure if the message is successful or not, second time saw the message, it was too fast on the first time
-	Go to setting Turn off the button, see the message tab, scroll a little bit, see the message appear
-	Pressed the set interface, go back to focus mode, forgot where to click… got it
-	Do have to pressed the arrow
-	Pressed remove friend, pressed banana, see a row of English message but it was too fast
-	Before refreshing the page, still can send message
-	Retry it with apple, Will not update automatically on the end, need to jump out to another page
-	Delete friend, but still appear in the post. After go to another page and come back, and it is gone

**Participant B**
-	Pressed select your option
-	Message, see select friend, see apple
-	Type in “I don't want to be friend with you” and press sent and see message sent
-	See remove friend, press remove friend, see apple, see successfully successfully
-	The interface is simple with the hint “select your option”
-	Still see your friend

## Summary Report

### Participant A

**Message Window Width on Cellphone**
> One thing that confused both me and participant A a lot was the message part. She said she couldn't saw her message getting update, even I asked her to scroll up or down in the chat box. 
> It turned out to be the width of the phone is way smaller than that in computer, so she was only able to see the left column, which is messages sent by friends. This is a sign for me to
> rewrite the code for the chat window, which was set to a fixed number suitable for computer originally.

**Toast Message**
> One thing that I did bad was failing to let the toast message show up (I messed up by removing the try, catch calls). Hence, with some forbidden operations, she was confused whether the operation is successful or not.
> A specific one is password update, where typing in a new password that is same as the original one should be forbidden.

**Label Input**
> Also for my label concept, I let the user type in whatever string they'd like, including empty strings. So when participant A typed in nothing and pressed "add label", only a "delete" button appears, which was confusing since users would not know an empty string was the label here.
> Even worse, I left the post id (debugging use) on the front end when "edit label" is pressed, which both participants were confused about those number. Despite that being said, the user did not experience problem on adding non-empty labels, which to the user was intuitive to type in content and add labels.

**Simutanelous Update**
> There were also places that were not simutaneously updated, for example, while a friend request was approved by the other, participant A will need to refresh the page to see the new friend. In focus mode, after a friend is removed, when you select friend-related operations, you can still see the deleted friend's username on the selection list.

**Navigation Bar Confusion**
> During the testing, I have realized that some link of the navigation bar was wrong. One thing worth noticing is that, when the instruction says go to home page, instead of pressing the "Home" tab on the navigation bar, she clicked the application logo directly.
> Other than that, participant A expected the "Hello, username" message will be linked to the setting page for logout and password update functionality.

**Focus Mode Successful Message**
> After you did an operation successfully in focus mode, you will see a "success!" message for 0.5 second and clear the form, which participant A thought to be too short. I did experimented different time span before the user testing and thought 0.5 second was the most natural one.
> However, I think this is not be an actual problem if I get my toast message fixed.

### Participant B

**Home Page/ Setting Confusion**
> When first entering the application, it showed a message saying "Please Login". Participant B was confused and did not know where to login. He thought the login page should be right under "Please Login" so that the user knows right away.
> Operations such as update password, set interface was hard to find for him. He was expected a tab called "personal information" instead of "setting" for those functionalities.

**Message/ Post Confusion**
> I have tried to differentiate message and post with multiple efforts. For example, in the message tab, you can see a line saying "chat with username", followed by green message boxes. Despite that being said, when I asked participant B to message, he would go to the home page and type in the friend's name in the "search post author" blank.
> This implies that the message and post should be even more different; probably an entirely different layout (currently both are listing constant horizontally).

**Interface Setting**
> The interface switch button is currently in setting tab. To address the problem of people are likely to be distracted by scrolling applications, I default the interface to be focus mode. Hence, there are only two tabs "Focus" and "Setting" when the user first uses the application.
> Participant B was confused since the functionalities seem to be a lot less than other common social media application, and he did not know what functionalities did this software have. Moreover, if you toggle the interface switch button, the only direct change on the screen is the navigation bar, which was hard for the user to be acknowledge there is a change.

**Author Name in Post Tab**
> When I asked to message one friend, instead of going to message tab, he went to the post tab and click the author of the post that has the same username, which I thought to be pretty realistic. When I tried to message someone who was not on the first page in the social media application, sometimes I go to group chat that has the same person and tap one's name/ headshot.
> I think it will be cool if pressing the author name, you can go to the message tab with this author (or a profile page).

**Focus Mode**
> He liked the focus mode a lot and thought it was pretty clear and straightforward. There was no problem at all when he operated through the focus mode (apart from the simultaneous updating issue I mentioned).

## Design Flaws/ Oppotunities

### Profile Page
> People using social media is prone to think clicking on names leads to a user's profile, including oneself's name. My participant experienced confusion when nothing was happening while clicking on names of posts' authors. Also, for some account-related settings, my participant also thought there should be another page that says "personal information".

> Hence, I think it is good to have a profile page, which includes number of friends, posts, date joining the application to help user easily build mental models of users.

> I think this is a moderate conceptual problem. Of course people can move on using this application, but I feel like without this profile page, it is hard for users to construct a mental model of individual users. In other words, it might look like a list of usernames instead of a list of users.

### Interface Update
> The way to toggle between focus and leisure mode was not obvious in the application. It is only a small switch in the Settings tab. Both of my participants had difficulties finding where to toggle different interface. Furthermore, despite the tabs are different while switching interface, it was hard to see find difference because you are still in the setting page, which occupies more than 80% of screen.

> Some possible ideas including changing background color when you switch interface, or simply change the entire configuration of the application, or create an independent interface page.
> I personally prefer create an independent interface page. Some information can be displayed to explain the functionalities in the other mode to emphasize that there is something different. For the other ideas that I have brainstormed, "switch color when switch interface" might make user connect the concept of focus/leisure to color, which is not my intention. I would like user be able to customize their own site in either mode. "Change the entire configuration of the application" means the interface toggle button is still in the Settings tab. My concern is that if we modify the entire configuration, the user might not able to find the button as they did. 

> This is a major linguistic issue in my opinion. Since the special part of this application is to switch mode and help people focus, the application structure was built that user can barely know how to toggle between interface, or even see the difference. That makes this application of no point. If the site structure can be slightly modified by adding a Interface tab, I think most of the confusion could be solved.

### Message Tab Interface

> The message blocks in the interface was not suitable for cellphone user. One of my participant was confused since only a column of the text box was visible. I also think it will be annoying once there are many friends, since the current implementation is to give each friend a certain height of block.

> I think it will be nice to design a collapsable chat box. Similar to mainstream social media, you can see the latest message and the username in a tiny row. After you click it, you can go to the conversation with this friend. Together with the profile page issue above, if a person clicks one's friend's profile page, and there can be a button that says "send message", which redirects the user to the chatbox with this friend.

> This is a minor physical problem. It was just poor layout and people need to scroll a little bit to get whatever they want.